# Math-Flash-Cards
Back in the hayday of my youth, I spent the first month of my summer vacation from school learning multiplication tables. At the time I couldn't recall them very quickly, so I was required spend an hour every day to committing them to memory before going outside to play everyday. This involved memorizing the tables using 3 x 5" index cards, with the equation written on one side, and the answer on the other. I would randomly sort the cards, and attempt to answer from memory, and checking the other side after each attempt. This eventually worked, after many hours of practice.

I now find myself as a parent, a daugther going through this same ritual, only this time with addition and subtraction. This felt like a good time to write an application to assist, and add in multiplication and division, since they'll be needed in the future. The program I came up with simulates the index card approach, and relys on the time needed to answer the question to determine progress. This feedback is shown in the form of a short comment after each equation with the answer are revealed. The quicker the responce, the more positive the comment. Random equations are shown, starting with 1 + n, where n is any number between 1 and 12, followed by 2 + n, 3 + n, and so on, to help the student start with the easer tables, and gradually work up to bigger numbers. The order of the terms will alternate, so that their memorization is not dependent on a particular order of the terms.

The random order of terms works well for addition and multiplication, but not so much with subtraction and division. The later two will always present the equations with the larger term 1st, to avoid memorizing equations with negative or fractional results.

